# Challenge Creation Guide

## Flag Format
The flag format for the YBN CTF is as follows:
```
YBN{flag_goes_here}
```

## Challenge Template
The challenge file structure is fixed and is as follows:
```
challenge_name/
├─ dist/
│  ├─ file_to_give_to_participants
├─ service/
│  ├─ container-name/
│  │  ├─ Dockerfile
├─ chall.yaml
├─ README.md
```

The `dist` directory is for specifying files that should be given to participants, and the `service` directory is for files to be run in a docker container if the challenge needs to be hosted.

The `chall.yaml` file is a special configuration file that contains information about the challenge. You can either use CTF-Architect to generate this file, or manually create it. The `README.md` is auto-generated by CTF-Architect, and is also used to provide information about the challenge.

## Creation Guide

### Option 1: CTF-Architect (Preferred)
- [CTF-Architect](https://github.com/Jus-Codin/CTF-Architect/) is a tool that currently supports the creation & templating of challenges created for the Gryphons CTF. 
- Do note that this tool is still in development, and may not be fully functional. If you encounter any issues, please contact the creator, @Jus-Codin, for assistance.
- Stable release: [v0.1.0a1](https://github.com/Jus-Codin/CTF-Architect/releases/tag/v0.1.0a1)

#### 1. Download the ctf_config.yaml file
You can find the ctf_config.yaml file [here](./ctf_config.yaml)

#### 2. Install CTF-Architect
```bash
pip install ctf-architect==0.1.0a1
```
#### 3. Ensure CTF-Architect is installed
```bash
ctf-architect --help
chall-architect --help
```

#### 4. Start packaging your challenge
```bash
chall-architect
```

#### 5. Submit your challenge
- If everything goes well, your challenge should be packaged & templated nicely in the folder specified.
- You can now **zip** the folder and submit it in the YBN Discord Server. Please mention that the challenge is for the YBN CTF

### Option 2: Manual Submission (not recommended)
- If you are unable to use CTF-Architect, you may manually submit your challenge.
- Please follow the template provided in the [templates](./template) directory.
- Do note that minor errors in the template may result in the challenge breaking, in such cases we may contact you for clarification, examples of working challenges can be found in the [examples](./examples) directory.

## Navigation
- [examples](./examples)
    - Contains challenge documentation examples for OSINT, Static & Hosted Web Challenges
- [templates](./templates)
    - Contains the challenge submission templates challenge submission, please follow the template.